===============
Head Over Heels
===============
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 8th Dec 99 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

Taken from the Ocean compilation 'The Magnificent Seven'.

Head Over Heels
---------------
Is one of the most addictive, playable, cuddly, cute and fun games ever. Miss
it at your peril. (Crash) CRASH SMASH AMS ACTION - MASTERGAME ZZAP SIZZLER.
(c) 1987 Ocean Software Limited

Spectrum
========
Loading
-------
1. Place the cassette in your recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound.
2. Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the volume and tone
   controls are set to the appropriate levels.
3. If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum + then load as follows.
   Type LOAD"" (ENTER). (Note there is no space between the two quotes).
   The " is obtained by pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P keys simultaneously.
4. Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load automatically. If you
   have any problems try adjusting the volume and tone controls and
   consulting Chapter 6 of the Spectrum manual.
5. If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the loading instructions
   on-screen or in the accompanying manual.
6. If there is more than one title on either side of the cassette always
   stop the tape when the first game has loaded. To load subsequent games
   reset the machine and follow previous loading instructions.

Spectrum +3 Disk
----------------
Set up the system and switch on as described on your instruction manual.
Insert disk and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option. After a short delay
a game selection screen will appear.

Game Selection
--------------
When the game titles appear on the selection screen type in the relevant
number of the game you wish to play. Once your selection has been made
your chosen game will automatically load.

Control Note
------------
If there is no Sinclair option, select redefine keyboard option and when
prompted move joystick in appropriate direction. Make sure the keyboard
is always selected.

Head Over Heels
===============
Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of
Ocean Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide. Head over Heels runs
on the Spectrum 48/128 micro computers.
Head over Heels will run on both 48k and 128k Spectrums, and feature
enhanced sound on the 128k models. The game may be played with keys or the
following joysticks: KEMPSTON, FULLER, INTERFACE II and the built in
joystick on the SPECTRUM PLUS 2. In addition any joystick that presses keys
may be defined from the keyboard menu.

Controls
--------
The Menu System
---------------
Use any key other than ENTER or SHIFT to move the cursor. Use ENTER to
select the entry indicated by the cursor. On the key menu return to main
menu by pressing shift.

Main Menu
---------
(a) PLAY THE GAME. This will either start a new game or if an old game is
in progress, will offer the chance to resume it.
(b) SLECT THE KEYS. This allows your personal joystick/keyboard selection to
be defined.
(c) ADJUST THE SOUND. Choice of 3 sound levels.
(d) CONTROL SENSITIVITY. Allows a selection of joystick/keyboard response.

Key Menu
--------
It is important to utilise this function properly - Please read the screen
prompts.
Step (a) Move cursor to highlight the required control on which the keys are
to be changed.
Step (b) Press ENTER (clears all current keys).
Step (c) Press all keys required for control (they will be printed on the
current line as they are pressed). If you want to use the ENTER key then
press it first. N.B. If you accidentally press the wrong key at this point
go on to Step (d) and then back to (b). (This involves pressing ENTER twice).
Spep (d) When all keys are selected press ENTER.
Step (e) If you want to change more controls then start again at Step (a),
otherwise press SHIFT and return to Main Menu.

Sound Menu
----------
There are 3 distinct sound levels within the game. These are different sound
tracks as opposed to volumes. One may select from:-
(a) All music and game sounds
(b) Useful game sounds
(c) No sounds

Control Sensitivity Menu
------------------------
This enables skill in control to be built up - the main difference being the
way diagonal control is interpreted. The dafault value is on Low Sensitivity
and is recommended for beginners.
The default controls have been defined as follows:-
LEFT 0, 6,                              Joystick-Left
RIGHT P, 7,                             Joystick-Right
DOWN A, 8,                              Joystick-Down
UP Q, 9,                                Joystick-Up
JUMP Space, Symbol Shift, M, N, B,      Joystick-Fire
CARRY Space, Enter, L, K, J
FIRE Shift, Z, X, C, V
SWOP S, D, F, G

Note: H is permanently defined as Hold, Once pressed a screen message will
appear offering the options of either aborting or continuing the game.
Space is defined as Jump and Carry, this allows both actions with one key
depression. At some parts of the game it is essential to use jump and carry
together so leave at least one key defined as both.

History Of The Blacktooth Empire
--------------------------------
Far, far away from our star Sol lies the Blacktooth empire, an evil empire,
four worlds enslaved by the planet Blacktooth. All of the slave worlds bubble
with unrest, but due to the oppressive nature of their rulers they never
reach boiling point, they all lack a leader to draw the masses of population
together.
Blacktooth itself is not any better, a world rigidly controlled by its
dynastic leaders for so long that the populace do not even think about
revolution. The peoples of the neighbouring stars are getting very worried
about signs of military expansion from Blacktooth and have sent a spy from
the planet Freedom to see if he can push the slave planets into full
rebellion by finding the crowns lost when Blacktooth took over.
The creatures of Freedom are very strange in that they are formed from a pair
of symbolic animals that have adapted to operate either independantly or,
to their mutual advantage, join together as one - Head saddled on Heels, and
indeed these ARE their names and both are highly trained spies.

The Game
--------
Head and Heels have been captured, separated and imprisoned in the castle
headquaters of Blacktooth. Their cells contain 'keep fit' equipment,
including a wall ladder that Head really must learn to climb. Your job is
to get them both out of the castle and into the market place so they can
join up again. From there, the journey leads to Moonbase Headquaters, where
you will have to decide either to try to escape back to Freedom or to be a
true hero and teleport to one of the slave planets to search for its lost
crown! To overthrow the dictatorship on any of the slave planets would be a
major blow to Blacktooth and you could return to Freedom in glory. Of course
Blacktooth would probably enslave them again eventually but it would slow
down any expansion plans for now. The populace of Blacktooth are so heavily
oppressed that they would have to see all four of the slave planets revolt
before the Blacktooth crown could cause an uprising. This of course would be
the ultimate accolade, and unfortunately, almost certain suicide.

Egyptus
-------
Once, a long time ago, a craft from Blacktooth got a bit lost while doing
a hyperspace jump and landed on an unknown planet. Here the crew found a
primative animal forming a sort of civilisation that appeared to revolve
around wrapping corpses in lots of bandages and putting them into huge stone
pyramids. When they returned to Blacktooth their emperor liked the sound of
it so much that he rebuilt the capital city of one of the slave planets to
resemble the story.

Penitentiary - The empire's prison planet
-----------------------------------------
Millions are imprisoned here. A harsh planet, very mountainous, much
climbing, skill required. The worst place is The Pit, try not to fall into
it!

Safari
------
A densely vegitated planet, mainly used for hunting. The natives live in
wooden forts in the junge, beware traps!

Book World
----------
The emperor is very keen on cowboy books, and has devoted an entire world to
a western library. Only the emperor's minions are permitted to read them.
Information is rigotously suppressed in the empire.

Blacktooth
----------
This planet has a large moon with three lunar space stations on it, the
larger of these, Moon station HQ, is the main teleport centre for the empire,
with a direction teleport to all the slave planets. Sometime after the
Egyptus episode, the latest Emperor sent out a craft to find that same
strange planet, and after much exploration it was finally located and the
craft landed. However the crew found the people had changed: instead of
pyramids they used castles, instead of wrapping corpses up in cloth, they
wrapped living men in metal and then tried to turn them into corpses with
sharp metal sticks. The Emperor, not to be outdone by his ancestor, built
a castle on Blacktooth and used it as his headquaters. This castle is
surrounded by a small market, and then a range of impassable mountains. The
only way to leave is via teleport to one of the three lunar space stations.

Head (Headus Mouthion)
----------------------
This creature is a symbiotic partner to Heels and will normally be found
sitting on top of one. Head is descended from a breed of flying reptile
and still has rudimentary wings that allow Head up to twice his own height
and to guide himself though the air.

Heels (Footus Underium)
-----------------------
During Heels's evolution the arms have totally disappeared while the legs
have become very powerful. Heels can jump his own height and can also run
very fast.

Reincarnation Fish
------------------
The strangest animal in the known universe! This fish likes to be eaten!
There have been cases of it jumping onto plates! But there is more: when you
eat one, its prodigious memory remembers everything about you. Its memory is
so good that if you die at some later date, you will be reincarnated at the
very place you ate the fish, and you will even have the taste still in your
mouth! How a fish can remember anything when its been eaten has never been
successfully explained. You must be very careful to check that the fish is
alive and wriggling as dead fish decompose very quickly and it rapidly
turns so poisonous that a single lick can kill.
WARNING: Even living reincarnation fish taste horrible!

Cuddly Stuffed White Rabbits
----------------------------
The cute toy bunnies magically enhance your powers. The status display at the
bottom of the screen will keep you informed as to which powers are
temporarily enhanced. If Head and Heels are connected when they pick up a
Life or Iron pill they will both get the enhanced power. There are four
types:
(1)  Two extra lives
(2)  Iron Pills (to make you invulnerable)                 [Shield icon]
(3)  Jump higher bunny. This only works on Heels           [Spring icon]
(4)  Go faster bunny. This only works on slow moving Head. [Flash icon]
If Heels pick up a go faster bunny or Head picks up a jump bunny the bunnies
power is wasted!

Hooter
------
The hooter may be used by Head to fire doughnuts at attacking mosters. This
will freeze them in place as they lick the doughnuts off their faces. The
hooter may only be used by Head and requires a tray of doughnuts to be of
any use.

Doughnuts
---------
Tray of six doughnuts are few and far between so don't waste shots. Only
Head may pick up doughnuts. The number of remaining doughnuts will be
displayed above the doughnut icon at the bottom left of the screen.

Bag
---
The bag may be used to carry small objects around a room. It is essential
for Heels to find and get the bag as it is impossible to get far without it.
The object in the bag will be displayed immediately above the bag's icon at
the bottom right of the screen. To pick up an object just stand on top of
it and press the CARRY key. It is not possible to drop an object in a
doorway.

Crowns
------
Find a crown and start a revolution. At the beginning of each game a screen
showing all five planets with a crown above each will be displayed. As each
crown is collected this screen will be shown again with the appropriate
crowns in a bright colour.

Teleports
---------
Standing on a teleport will activate its machanism, this will sound a warning
siren. Pressing the jump key will cause you to teleport. Not all teleports
are two way, some are linked in a chain.

Springs
-------
Jumping from a spring will give extra height to your jump.

Switches
--------
Simply push the switch to switch things off and on! WARNING: Switching a
deadly monster off will stop him moving but he will still be deadly to
touch.

Conveyor Belts
--------------
The rollers on the conveyor simply push you along it. If you wish to go the
opposite direction you have to jump along.

Hush Puppies
------------
These are a very strange type of beast, they are increadibly sleepy, in fact
they never wake up and it is quite normal for them to sleep for their
entire lives. They are often used as tables and even used as building bricks.
They are a native of Freedom and for many thousands of years Head and his
ancestors have been mistaking them for Heels and causing so much trouble to
the poor old hush puppies they they evolved a defence mechanism, they
somehow learned to teleport themselves away. Nobody knows where they go but
the instant they see any of Head's race they disappear and won't return until
thay are sure the coast is clear.

The Emperor's Guardian
----------------------
The guardian blocks the door to the throne room in Blacktooth castle, he is
very dangerous and he doesn't like doughnuts. Only a true hero may pass the
guardian.

Swop Key
--------
If Head is sitting on Heels the swop key will, on each push, give you control
of:
(1) Heels. (2) Head & Heels. (3) Head. (4) Head & Heels.
If Head is not on Heels the swop key will, on each push, give you control of:
(1) Head. (2) Heels.
At all times the character(s) whose icon is lit is under player control.
When Head and Heels are joined together all their abilities are combined.
It is not possible to swop if standing in a doorway.

Hints and Tips
--------------
1. Beginners should aim to escape from Blacktooth and get back to Freedom
initially. Only the very skilled can hope to liberate a planet or two.
2. When you first get Head and Heels in the same location, practice placing
Head on top of Heels and joining them together accurately with the swop key.
Both of their icons will light up when they are successfully joined.
3. Remember Head and Heels are a team. Just because both are in the same room
does not mean you have to join them together, and in fact some problems may
only be solved by separating Head and Heels.
4. Make sure Head learns to climb ladders, this is an essential skill.
5. Both Heels's bag and Head's hooter must be collected at the initial stages
for there to be any chance of completing the game.
6. If Head and Heels are in the same room, extra jumping height may be
obtained by on jumping off the other's back.
7. Find a safe spot and get used to how far Head and Heels may move over the
edge of a brick before they fall, this will enable you to make the longest
jumps. Both Head and Heels will jump slightly further if they are running as
they jump.
8. Learn the difference in distance and control betwen Head's jumps and
Heels's jumps.
9. Make a map.
10. Do not waste doughnuts, they are not easy to find.
11. Display screens such as the Five planets or the Final score may be
aborted by pressing any key.
12. Do not get confused, only Heels may carry anything and only Head may
fire.
13. To discover if there is a room above, pile objects high as possible and
jump from the top. If there is a spring in the room, put it on the top for
extra jumping height.
14. If you can't understand a room, try exiting and entering again, watching
carefully for any movement in the room as you enter.
15. If you wish to freeze the game without the pause message obscuring the
screen display, keep the pause key depressed.

Credits
-------
Written by Jon Ritman and Bernie Drummond.
Music and sound effect by Guy Stevens.
Produced by D.C. Ward.
(c)1987 Ocean Software Limited.

Amstrad
=======
Loading
-------
CPC 464
-------
Place the rewound cassette in the cassette deck type RUN" and then press
ENTER key. Follow the instructions as they appear on screen. If there is a
disk drive attached then type |TAPE then press ENTER key. Then type RUN" and
press ENTER key, follow the instructions as they appear on screen.

(The | symbol is obtained by holding shift and pressing the @ key.)

CPC 664 and 6128
----------------
Connect a suitable tape recorder ensuring that the correct leads are attached
as defined in the User Instruction Booklet. place the rewound tape in the
cassette recorder and type |TAPE then press ENTER key. Then type RUN" and
press ENTER key, follow the instructions as they appear on screen.

Disk
----
Insert the program disk into the drive with the A side facing upwards.
Type |DISC and press ENTER to make sure the machine can access the disk
drive. Now type |CPM and press ENTER the game will now load automatically,
follow the instructions as they appear on screen.

Head Over Heels
===============
Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of
Ocean Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide. Head over Heels runs
on the Amstrad CPC 464, 664 and 6128 micro computers.

Instructions are identical to those for Spectrum above except:

Control Sensitivity Menu
------------------------
This enables skill in control to be built up - the main difference being the
way diagonal control is interpreted. The dafault value is on Low Sensitivity
and is recommended for beginners.
The default controls have been defined as follows:-
LEFT  Cursor-Left         Joystick-Left
RIGHT Cursor-Right        Joystick-Right
DOWN  Cursor-Down         Joystick-Down
UP    Cursor-Up           Joystick-Up
JUMP  Space or Copy       Joystick-Fire
CARRY Space, f., fEnter, f3, f2, f1, f0
FIRE  f6, f5, f4
SWOP  f9, f8, f7

Note: ESC is permanently defined as Pause, Once pressed a screen message will
appear offering the options of either aborting or continuing the game.
Space is defined as Jump and Carry, this allows both actions with one key
depression. At some parts of the game it is essential to use jump and carry
together so leave at least one key defined as both.

Commodore
=========
Loding
------
Position the cassette in your Commodore recorder with the printed side
upwards and make sure that it is rewound to the beginning. Ensure that all
leads are connected. Press the SHIFT key and the RUN/STOP simultaneously.
Follow the screen instructions - PRESS the SHIFT PLAY ON TAPE. This program
will load automatically. For C128 loading type GO 64 (RETURN), then follow
C64 instruction. Follow the instructions as they appear on screen. Ensure
that all peripherals are removed.

Disk
----
Select 64 mode. Turn on the disk drive insert the program into the drive with
the label facing upwards type LOAD "*",8,1 (RETURN) the introductory screen
will appear and the program will then load automatically. Follow the
instructions as they appear on screen.

Head Over Heels
===============
Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of
Ocean Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide. Head over Heels runs
on the Commodore 64/128 micro computers.

Instructions are identical those for Spectrum except:

Controls
--------
The Menu System
---------------
Use CURSOR UP/DOWN KEY to move the cursor. Use COMMODORE KEY to
select the entry indicated by the cursor. On the key menu return to main
menu by pressing LEFT SHIFT.

Main Menu
---------
(a) PLAY THE GAME. This will either start a new game or if an old game is
in progress, will offer the chance to resume it.
(b) SLECT THE KEYS. This allows your personal joystick/keyboard selection to
be defined.
(c) ADJUST THE SOUND. Choice of 3 sound levels.
(d) CONTROL SENSITIVITY. Allows a selection of joystick (port 1)/keyboard
response.

Key Menu
--------
It is important to utilise this function properly - Please read the screen
prompts.
Step (a) Move cursor to highlight the required control on which the keys are
to be changed.
Step (b) Press COMMODORE KEY (clears all current keys).
Step (c) Press all keys required for control (they will be printed on the
current line as they are pressed). If you want to use the COMMODORE KEY then
press it first. N.B. If you accidentally press the wrong key at this point
go on to Step (d) and then back to (b). (This involves pressing COMMODORE KEY
twice).
Spep (d) When all keys are selected press COMMODORE KEY.
Step (e) If you want to change more controls then start again at Step (a),
otherwise press LEFT SHIFT and return to Main Menu.

Sound Menu
----------
There are 3 distinct sound levels within the game. These are different sound
tracks as opposed to volumes. One may select from:-
(a) All music and game sounds
(b) Useful game sounds
(c) No sounds

Control Sensitivity Menu
------------------------
This enables skill in control to be built up - the main difference being the
way diagonal control is interpreted. The dafault value is on Low Sensitivity
and is recommended for beginners.
The default controls have been defined as follows:-
LEFT                                    Joystick-Left
RIGHT                                   Joystick-Right
DOWN                                    Joystick-Down
UP                                      Joystick-Up
JUMP COMMODORE KEY                      Joystick-Fire
CARRY COMMODORE KEY, F3    
FIRE LEFT SHIFT       
SWOP F5        

Note: ESC is permanently defined as Hold, Once pressed a screen message will
appear offering the options of either aborting or continuing the game.
COMMODORE KEY is defined as Jump and Carry, this allows both actions with
one key depression. At some parts of the game it is essential to use jump and
carry together so leave at least one key defined as both.

Commodore Coding by Colin Porch. Music by Peter Clarke.

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured to the
highest quality standards. Please read carefully the instructions for
loading.
